

### Case Study Motivation

Generally speaking, a student establishes sinuous connections between academic sources, handwritten notes, and classroom resources. Technology makes nearly all retrieval operations far faster and easier than they would have been years ago. Nonetheless, reference management, document preparation, and collaboration remain some of the most arduous affairs for academics. Texdeck.net documents one new permutation of academic productivity workflows. It emerges from a combination of relatively new but well supported software projects which when combined, may offer far-reaching benefits.  

It is the dream of this project to make what information that is available, more useful. Class materials have been published for entire majors leading some to speculate that we may see a drop in post-secondary education prices. Maybe there would be a revolution where a flood of skilled engineers enter the workforce to solve the world's pressing challenges. While instructional videos have easily generated billions of dollars in value over the past decades, they don't necessarily produce as radical change as many have imagined. While there are many times as much material available as is necessary to graduate a student, there are not enough teachers/professors in the world for all of the would-be learners. That is because independent learning is inherently hard. See the [two sigma problem](http://web.mit.edu/5.95/readings/bloom-two-sigma.pdf). There will always be exceptional cases where an individual implements free resources and becomes a rockstar. Is this possible? sure. Likely? based on the proportion of rockstars in the population, no.

Internet-native course content has become dramatically more effective over the past decade, but it may yet underserve a majority of students. It can also involve a great deal of time investment from instructors to generate quality content. At best, effective online learning management systems have minimized lost time for many amid learning interruptions during the 2020 pandemic. At worst however, the impact of distance has dramatically [lengthened instructer-student feedback loops](https://www.bradley.edu/sites/it/departments/ldt/it-tools/sakai/principles/timely-feedback/) leading to massive learning opportunity lost. We do not yet know the scale of this impact, but as the entire globe is piecing together new solutions for remote learning the rapid evolution of remote learning may yield radically different prevailing systems of thought.

Each discipline will be impacted differently. Computer Science may be slightly more productive than expected, but any science training dependent on a lab is likely severely impaired. The study of physics is the main focus of Texdeck.net. It is a broad discipline which often involves lab work. Depending on the specialty of students, instructors, and practioners there will likely be a wide variability to the effect of lockdown....
